What is civic technology, and how can Smart Cities benefit from it? 

Civic technology is technology that allows governments to better deliver services for citizens. (Wood 2021) It is “the tools and processes… that support urban problem solving and improve quality of life.” (Wilson 2019, 30) Often civic technology uses open data to identify issues. This data allows non-profits and citizens from also taking part in helping the work of governments and services. Civic technology and smart cities go hand-in-hand. Smart cities are cities that build civic technology into their infrastructure. They collect data from citizens transit cards, 311 calls, and other such activities and then release this as open data. (Wilson 2019, 32) Universities, nonprofits, and civilians can then use this open data to push for needed changes in a variety of different ways. Nonprofits can bring this information to funders, civilians to their elected officials, and universities can help train students to think critically about this data and how it can be used to make society a better place. Of course, a problem with open data is the fact that people or companies with malicious intent could use the data to identify citizens so cities do need to be careful about the data they chose to release and ensure that they build strong data governance and protections. (Wilson 2019, 33) Smart cities can use civic technology to be data-driven and continuously improve their practices to keep pace with the constantly changing environment. Civic technology can highlight invisible problems and help cities from making choices that could have disastrous outcomes. As smart cities, civic technology, and open data become more common we need to increase data literacy. Everyone should be able to have a basic understanding of data so that they are not taken advantage of. For profit companies and companies with malicious intent could easily trick people into making choices that could actively harm them unknowingly.

Wilson, B., & Chakraborty, A. (2019). Planning smart (er) cities: The promise of civic technology. Journal of Urban Technology, 26(4), 29-51. 
Wood, Colin. “What Is Civic Tech?” Government Technology, April 23, 2021. <https://www.govtech.com/civic/what-is-civic-tech.html>.
